
Comments for the Author:

SI Editors' comments:

We have completed the review process of your paper. Reviewers
recommend your paper to undergo on minor revision because, among
others, of their concerns about some significant but missing
justification on assumptions and decisions made for the paper, about
some omitted standards and about the lack of evaluation present in the
paper's current form. Please take all of them into consideration
before submitting your new version of the paper.

Reviewer #1: 

This paper presents OCCI-DRMAA, which provides a standardized access
to batch processing facilities hosted in a cloud.  The authors review
standards related to job control and monitoring in DRM systems (GLUE,
JSDL, BES, SAGA and DRMAA) and standards for IaaS cloud environments
(mentioning CDMI or OVF, but focused on OCCI).  The OCCI-DRMAA
approach takes advantage of OCCI extensibility and DRMAA specificity,
serving both as DRMAA language binding specification and as OCCI
extension specification.  The authors evaluate also the BES
specification as an alternative. However, a deeper justification is
needed, i.e. why not an OCCI-BES approach? what about a plain or a
REST BES approach?  A reference is missing for the experiments of EMI
with BES.  Finally, some evaluation of a prototype implementation, or
at least some practical issues, would be welcome for a scientific
publication.

TODO


Reviewer #2: General comments

p.1, 2nd col., last para. "Another example are modern ..." Needs to be
reworded as "example" is singular but "frameworks" is plural. Does
map-reduce "implicitly" organize job distribution and management? Some
level of management of the map-reduce workers is required, although
this may be handled automatically by the platform.

p.2, 2nd col., 4th para. " Software as a Service ... the Amazon Web
Services". Most of the Amazon Web Services would fall in the IaaS or
PaaS categories. Could you clarify this? Google Mail (Gmail) might be
a good example of a SaaS.

p.3, 1st col., last para (continues to next col.)

"The standardization of description formats and interfaces for
distributed resource management systems implies a permanent mandatory
choice between the level of application portability resp. system
interoperability, and the level of feature completeness."

The meaning of this is important paragraph is unclear. This structure
and the abbreviation "resp." are not commonly used in this way in
English, to the best of my knowledge.

Could it be rephrased (if I understand correctly) "... choice between,
on the one hand, the level of application portability or system
interoperability and, on the other hand, the level of feature
completeness."

p.6, 1st col., 4th para. I find it difficult to follow the argument
that DRMAA is a natural candidate for implementation of SAGA's
job-related functionalities. If DRMAA is intentionally not
feature-complete how can it meet this requirement for SAGA?

p.6, 1st col., 5th para. Is there some justification (reference) for
the statement that most end-users do not demand a large set of
functionality?

TODO: hard to find refs, but I agree from experience.

p.6, 2nd col., 7th para.

I suggest moving the sentence beginning "The perceived
significance..." to the start of this Section.

I suggest starting a new para. before "One group of cloud
standards..."

Regarding the sentence starting "One group ...",  PaaS normally refers
to platforms (not applications), and SaaS to software/applications
(not storage): see e.g. Mell & Grance 2011
(http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-145/SP800-145.pdf)

It might be useful to name the relevant standards in the same
paragraph as you define the "group".

Could give examples of the second group of standards (monitoring ...)?

p.8, 1st col., 2nd para. I suggest you switch the order of the clauses
in the sentence beginning "This relation is comparable ..." so that
the examples come after the idea.

p.8, 1st col., 3rd para. OVF is mentioned as belonging to the first
group (the "lifecycle management" group) although it seems to belong
more naturally to the third group (the "data formats" group).

p.8, 2nd col., 4th para. Could you give a reference to EMI's
BES-in-cloud work?

p.8, 2nd col., 4th para. (and following) I find the names "intra-VM"
and "inter-VM" unhelpful. "intra-VM" suggests "within a (single) VM"
while "inter-VM" suggests "between VMs".

FIXME: fix pics

If I understand correctly "intra-VM" is used to mean a
"cloud-deployed" batch job submission system, while "inter-VM" is used
to mean a "cloud-integrated" batch job submission system.

p.9, 1st col., last para. "... can be interpreted as a SaaS offering"

I would tend to think of this as a platform offering, as (I presume)
the user can, in general, submit their own software to be run on the
batch system.

p.12, 1st col., 2nd last para of Summary "...portability resp.
interoperability." Again, rewrite to avoid using "resp."

Minor corrections and typos:

p.2, 1st col., 2nd para. "were humans" -> "where humans"
p.2, 1st col., 3rd para. "Such job description" -> "Such a job description" (or just "A job description")
p.2, 2nd col., 6th para. "were organizations" -> "where organizations"
p.3, 1st col., 1st para. "batch processing based" -> "batch-processing-based"
p.3, 1st col., 2nd para. "wefirst define" -> "we first define"
p.5, 2nd col., 1st para. "lover level" -> "lower level"
p.6, 1st col., 3rd para. "such as pilotjobs, bigjobs, mapreduce," Could these terms be either formatted as special terms (italics) or written as "pilot jobs, big jobs, map-reduce jobs"?
p.6, 1st col., 4th para. "without disqualify the" -> "without disqualifying the"
      "This comparatively harsh restrictions" -> "...restriction"
      "DRMAA und SAGA" -> "DRMAA and SAGA"
      "SAGAs" -> "SAGA's"
p.6, 1st col., 5th para. "majority of end users does" -> "majority of end-users do"
p.6, 2nd col., 1st para. "DRMAA is intended to be adoptable to multiple programming languages." Could be "adaptable to" or "used with". Probably not "adopted by".
p.7, 2nd col., 2nd para. "dillemma" -> "dilemma"
p.7, 2nd col., 4th para. "withouth" -> "without"
p.8, 2nd col., 2nd para. "f.e." -> "e.g."
p.8, 2nd col., last para. "to habe a" -> "to have a"
p.9, 2nd col., 2nd para. "distinguishing" -> "distinction"
p.10, Table 1 It could be useful to have the English text associated with the HTTP codes in the table (e.g. 404 Not Found) although I understand space is limited.
p.11, Fig. 7 and 8. Could the requests and responses be made more distinct e.g. by making the requests bold, or including spaces between request and response (as in part of Fig. 8)?
p.12, Ref 8. Include link to http://www.hpcexperiment.com/ ?


